The Friday Mosque of Isfahan

This Mosque is in Isfahan, Iran. Construction of the mosque began in 841 and over the centuries it has evolved into what is today. It acts as a monument exemplifying the techniques and patterns commonly seen in Islamic architecture. This mosque is regarded as the first to have a courtyard surrounded by four iwans. An iwan is a space surrounded by walls on three sides with a fourth side acting as an opening to the space. One of the iwans is shown in the attached picture. This iwan is the qibla iwan. The qibla iwan indicates the direction towards Mecca. This is crucial to the Islam religion because Muslims should face Mecca during prayer no matter where they are in the world. The qibla iwan, marked with two minarets (the towers), tells people which direction their prayers should be sent.

One interesting feature to note about this mosque and other forms of islamic architecture is the lack of many human forms. The Qur'an warns against "the worship of idols", and so things that can be an idol are typically avoided. To do this, architects and artist spent their time delving into both simple and complex patterns to beautify their structures. This is extremely true for the qibla iwan in the attached picture. The whole facade is built with simple forms that give rise to a more complex image.

Over time this has evolved from a mosque to a city center courtyard. Though originally built for worship, the mosque became an area for people to pass through as they moved around the city. It is at the center of the old city and has many entrances leading into the courtyard from the outside, making it a fantastic place for pedestrians.

Personally, my interest in the structure arises from its use of simple forms to create a more complex composition. The use of little color and simple shapes creates a bold facade that one can lose themselves in. One quality that sticks out to me is the dark blue used on the outer wall and its contrast with the gold surfaces that mark the first inset of the iwan.

There may or may not be danger in applying Western aesthetics when observing the mosque. However, there could be misinterpretations if it is viewed without the knowledge of the culture responsible for its construction. For example, when first viewing the qibla iwan, one could imagine that towers are used to represent some sort of "reaching for the heavens" when they are in fact used to indicate the direction of Mecca.
