History of Rise and Fall - Manabu Ikeda

The History of Rise and Fall is a Monumental drawing. At approximately 6.5 by 6.5 feet, the work bursts with detail. From the bottom to the top, we see Japanese pagodas and other Japanese structures stacked on top of one another. Inbetween these numerous layers of stucture is an abundant amount of detail. From the battles of entire armies on some roofs to the leaves of cherry blossoms covering others. Every inch of the drawing introduces something new to the viewer that they would not have encountered otherwise.

Upon standing back and taking in the piece as a whole, the overall composition is recognizable. The large structure emerges from surrounding farmland at the bottom of the piece. As we move from the bottom to the top of the piece, there is a strong change from dissonance to consonance. The bottom presents viewers with an extraordinary amount of variety. Each movement of the eye provides a change in shape, and color. There is a stark contrast to this as we approach the top of the piece though. Upon looking up, we notice that the extreme variety is replaced with more and more unity. The walls of structures, once faced with unique stone arrangements, become simple white facades. The roofs at the bottom are rotated in a multitude of directions, but at the top, this is replaced by structures that share the same orientation. Along the entire vertical axis of the painting, we observe a gradient from variety to unity. Though even the top presents us with an extreme amount of detail, the differences between elements lower on the drawing are more pronounced than those that appear at the top. This is further demonstrated by the approximate balance that we can see on the left and right sides of the drawing. Though all of the details on both are strikingly different, the two sides present a similar overall shape which creates a visual consistency for the viewer. It is also important to observe that the mountainous structure tapers to a top that just barely goes over the edge of the paper, whilst the bottom is completely covered from side to side by both the base of the structure and the land surrounding it.

Another important quality to observe in Ikeda's work is the prominince of both geometric and organic forms. Though a large amount of the piece is covered with structures, on the right hand side a tree dominates as a central figure in the piece. It's roots intertwine with the structure and the branches give rise to cherry blossoms that cover some to the white facades. In addition to the tree, on top of many of the geometric roofs, the organic forms of men walk. Some of these men are at war with eachother, which is is visible on the roofs on the right hand side, and others appear to be working in the industrialized section on the lower right. On top of this, as one looks at the details of the drawing more and more, certain organic forms will pop out, such as the creature emerging from behind a stone wall at the very bottom of the image.

This drawing most certainly does not have one be all end all purpose. How can one artist expect to maintain a core pillar after years of working on a single piece? Instead, it presents us with a multitude of ideas. Some ideas contemplate the development of society and others dramatacize the relationship between industriliaztation and nature. When considering the piece, one can come to the conclusion that it shows the building of Japanese society and civilaztion over time as our eyes move to the top of the drawing. Though, upon further invistagation, this can't be true. We can see the highly developed region in the bottom right. It is filled with interweaving train tracks and even some much more modern buildings at the edge of the structures base. At the very top, cranes appear to continue construction on this large building. This does not show time linearly as our eyes traverse the vertical axis from bottom to top. Instead, it alludes to what may be multiple different events that occured within a Japan's or some civilations history all over different sections of the piece. This may act as an explanation for the name "History of Rise and Fall" as the events occuring all over the piece appear to be both grim, represnting great tragedy, and bright, represnting accomplishments.

As stated ealier, nature and civilization also appear to play a crucial role in the piece. When observing all of the details of the work, it becomes very clear that what appears to be a large man made structure at first glance it actually intertwined with different forms of nature in every section of the drawing. In the bottom right, a tornado lifts what seems to be men into the sky. On the bottom left, greenery and water dominate many sections of the drawing. This relationship drawn here seems to express the great power of both nature and civilazation working in conjugation with one another. It is that very coordination that may have given rise to the tower dawn by Ikeda.
