Themes
Sacred Realm - cannot be seen with human eyes. Religious things. Abstract ideas.
Politics / Social Order - reflect the nature of society.
Story and History - Using art to communicate a story.
The here and now - Art about everyday life
The human experience - who am I?
Fantasy and Invention - imaginative artwork.
The natural world - Nature


Visual elements
Line - Path of a moving point.
Vertical Lines - Assertive.
Horizontal Lines - Calm.
Diagonal Lines - Dramatic and imply action.
Implied Lines - Directional cues that create an implict line.
Shape - 2D form that occupies and area.
Mass - 3D form that occupies space.
Geometric Form - Mathematically defined.
Organic Form - Irregular and more natural.
Figure - The shape where visual focused is placed.
Ground - The background shape or shapes.
Implied Shapes - Creating a shape without directly showing it.
Actual Light - Real light.
Illusionistic Light - The impression of existing light.
Primary Colors - Yellow, Red, Blue
Secondary Colors - Orange, Green, Violet
Intermediate Colors - Mixing of primary and seconday colors.
Warm Colors - On the red orange side.
Cool Colors - On the blue green side.
Tint - Adding white to a color.
Shade - Adding black to a color.
Hue - Color quality.
Value - How dark the color is.
Saturation - How tinted the color is.
Monochromatic - Variations of the same hue.
Complementary - Hues directly opposite on the color wheel.
Analogous - Adjacent hues on the color wheel.
Triadic - 3 equidistant hues on the color wheel.
Pointillism - Small dots that are actually mixed when we see them.
Actual texture - The tactile experience.
Implied textue - The illusion of texture.
Pattern - Repeated motif or design.
Space - Defines the space the visual elements exist in.
2D Space - Picture plane is where the actual image is.
Implied Space - Overlapping and position.
Illusionistic - Use of perspective.
Foreshortening - Linear perspective's affect on objects in a picture
Atmospheric perspective - Objects get paler the farther they are (fog)
Motion and Time - The movement of objects throughot the piece.


Principles of Design
Composition - Organization of all visual elements.
Unity - Things belonging together.
Visual Unity - Similar visual elements.
Conceptual Unity - Grouping of ideas.
Variety - Differences that provide stuff.
Visual Weight - apparent heaviness or lightness of forms in the composition.
Symmetrical Balance - Things are the same on both sides.
Approximate Symmetry - Things are similar on both sides, but there are differences.
Asymmetrical Balance - The two sides are completely different.
Emphasis - Putting emphasis on an area so viewers look at it.
Focal Point - The center of the piece.
Subordination - Less visualy interesting.
Scale - Size in relation to normal size.
Proportion - Size relationships between parts.
Rythm - Repetition of visual elements.

