Feminism is the idea that all sexes should be regarded as equal in society. Specifically, feminism seeks to advance women's rights as they have been subjected to oppression from society for much of history. In the words of Google, it is "the advocacy of women's rights on the basis of the equality of the sexes." Since the 1800s, feminism has been a central topic in society and continues to make strides for equality to do this day [1]. Over the course of the century, many advocates have expressed feminist ideals and the threats to society that could emerge if we do not give them attention. One of these advocates is the science fiction writer Leslie Stone. In her story, -The Conquest of Gola-, she takes an extreme approach at demonstrating what a sexist society devoid of feminism may look like. Though the work is without a doubt a projection of femenists' concerns, the world portrayed in it eliminates a crucial portion of the femenist ideal. It does not demonstrate equality between sexes. Instead, like the gap in-between the two sides of a canyon, the world shows a large divide between them. For this reason, Stone's story is not femenist in terms of content, but it shows just how much misunderstading and hatred can be created without feminist ideals.

One element of the feminist ideal is the elimination of gender roles. Gender roles are the roles that individuals play in society based on their sex at birth. They can extend to all elements of one's character. A common example of such a thing is the idea that men do not cry or show emotion, because they take the role of the stone walls that experience no such thing. In -The Conquest of Gola-, Stone elaborates on gender roles to describe the Detaxalans from the perspective of the Golans. In the view of the Golans, the Detaxalan, "ignoble male creatures, breed for physical prowess, leaving the development of their sciences, their philosophies, and the contemplation of the abstract to a chosen few" (Wesleyan 98). To further demonstrate this view, according to the Golans, the interests of the opposite sex are "commerce and trade, business propositions, tourists, and all of their evil practices" (108). Throughout the entirety of the story, Stone consistently expresses this Golan view with explicit statements, putting all Detaxalan under a single banner. But what of the Detaxalan? Stone gives us little insigt into their ideas, but a few splotches of dialogue paint a picture. In their words, "'Women are alright in their place, but it takes men to see the profit in a thing like [Gola]'" (104). Clearly, they are also prone to categorizing the opposite sex using gender roles. This labling is analagous to the challenges that Stone faced in the 1930s during her strive to become a science fiction writer (96). Even still, we cotinue to deal with this problem today, though to a lesser degree. Like the Detaxalan and their "business propositions", males are thought to be ones that gain employment and maintain income for their family. Similar to how  the Detaxalans "breed for physical prowess", males are supposed to lift weights, and, well, do manly things, because they're men. The Golan's view of the Detaxalan and in turn, the Detaxalan's view of the Golan, is not a feminist one because feminism does not seek to subject each sex to gender roles.

Since its beginnings, feminism has acted as a movement supported by both men and women to take down the patriarcal society that we live in [2]. This is important for males and females because it promotes the equality of both sexes socialy, economically, and politically. The Golans in Stone's story have a different take on this ideal that goes against the equality that is so widely supported by femenists. In the Golan society, we do not see a patriarcal one, nor do we one where sexes are treated as equals, instead, we are given a Matriarchy. Stone does not choose allude to this trait. She makes clear the status of the society with her first choice of words. "Hola, my daughters (sighed the Matriarch)" (97). Well, that's clear. So, the Golans have a Matriarch. Is it really a complete matriarchy though? Stone does not hide this either when she writes on the male population of Golan. The narrators words indicate that the males of Golan are indeed exposed to oppression from Golan society. "Shut in, as they are, unable to grasp the profundities of our science and thought, the gentle, fun-loving males were always glad for a new diversion..." (103). This sounds vaguely reminiscent of our own society's past. Before the Great Depression "many women did not pursue higher education by enrolling in college courses". Most "planned to marry [and] would not be permitted to work thereafter" [3]. It seems that Stone is creating a metaphore for females' lack of education during her time. In the story, she decides to twist it around and put men in the shoes of women by subjecting them to the same lack of education. This puts them on an uneven playing field with the females of Gola, supporting their matriarchy. Whilst the Golan provide a nice change in perspecptive for us humans, their choice to oppress is not a feminist one. In the eyes of feminism, a patriarchy is not good, but that does not mean a matriarch is good either. Both introduce a bias where one sex overpowers another and that is not what sex equality is.

The existence gender roles and the patriarchy were prominent during the 1930s and still exist today in some sense. For Stone, she didn't want to create a mere reflection of the society she was exposed to. No, she aimed to widen the canyon between female and male to a degree that extends beyond and into another world. To do this, Stone's imaginative race take the most extreme approaches to rejecting the ideas consistently professed by feminism. For one, there are the Detaxalans. When told they cannot have their way by the Golans, they announce that they "will have to take [Gola] forcibly" (105). They proceeed to do so, disreggarding the decisions of the Golan and ignoring their lack of aggression. Then there are the Golans. After stopping the Detaxalan, a captured male was "to act as [the narrator's] slave or in what capacity [she] desired" (107). When both the Golan and the Detaxalan take such extreme approaches, can either societies really be considered feminist. Detaxalann force themselves onto Golan without their consent. Golans condone the use of the opposite sex as slaves. These decisions reflect reality on a global scale. Are the Detaxalans forced actions not similar to a male disreggarding female consent. Both sexes within the race share a dark quality. They are not respectful to the other. The two societies directly constast the foundation on which feminism was built: "equality of the sexes."

Stone's -The Conquest of Golan- provide us many insights into what a gender divide could look like without feminism. The content of the story creates a society in which sexes face significant adveristy towards one another. In more frank words, it shows sexism at its worst. In her story, Stone took the canyon that seperates sexes and ripped it as far apart as she could. So far that when looking from one side to the other, the edge of the high ground is not visible. She did this with the hope that we as readers will acknowledge this gap and be willing to descend to the bottom of the canyon where both sexes can respect each others differences and become equals on level ground.
